# Milestone Project 2 - Bespoke Project to Demonstrate Use of Dashboards and Working with External APIs
https://jaypeaa.github.io/milestone2/


The project concept is from the perspective of a Technology Company ("Best Analytics") who produces dashboards and provides web design services.
The main feature of the site is the dashboard which utilises D3, Crossfilter and DC.js. The data used is a dummy dataset for two franshises "New You"
and "Fresh Look". It incorporates a number of interactive charts, a data count and a data table.  The 'Consolidated Sales Chart' includes a 
brush feature to easily select different time periods.

## UX

The project has been designed with the end user in mind.  The end user being buinesses predominantly who wish to utilise their MI generated by the 
business graphically on a company website. This might be to drive stakeholder engagement through the use of an interactive charting tool. 

To enhance the user experience a more modern one page theme has been designed.  It utilises the HTML scroll feature and JQuery to scroll to various
sections of the website.  As the user scrolls up & down the page the nav bar highlights the current section being viewed.

A preloader has been included in the dashboard section to demonstrate to the user when data is loading.  Various elements have also been faded
out on loading the page which fade back in to view slowly when loading is complete.  JQuery was used for this purpose.  Another aspect of the site
is that when being viewed in portrait view on a mobile device an image is displayed instructing the user to rotate the device to landscape in order
to view the dashboard.

To prevent poor user experience when viewing the dashboard section of the site in portrait mode on mobile devices a place holder is displayed.  This
communicates to the user the need to rotate the device to landscape view in order to view the dashboard.

The flow of the site has been created in a more modern one page layout. Square edges and subtle use of shadow have been applied in order to make the
various sections stand out. 

A large 'call to action' button (Contact Us) has been placed in the header of the home screen.  This call to action button occupies prime real estate 
in order to drive customer enquiries and contains a hover effect to improve the 'click through rate' and increase conversions.  This aspect of the site 
recognises its commercial nature whilst enhancing the user experience by making it easy to get in touch within a couple of clicks.

A user may wish to perform the following actions:

* Utilise the example dashboard.
* Understand how the graph and data table interact with each other through experimentation.
* contact us via the contact form.
* contact us more traditional means (post/phone/email).
* reach out to us on socialmedia.

The site provides all these options to the end user and is very easy to utilise and navigate.

Wireframes for this project are available here https://github.com/JayPeaa/milestone2/blob/master/wire-frames.pdf

# Features

The main features of the site are:

* Clear and Easy to Use Navigation
* Interactive Dashboard
* APIs - Google Maps, MailJS
* Email subscription 
* Contact Form
* Social Media for marketing and engagement purposes

## Future development

The sample dataset includes customer information it would be possible to create additional charts to analyse customer behaviour and spend.  A
secure log in section and online purchase options for potential customers would also be a valuable addition (e-commerce aspect). Using AJAX and Jquery
would help to provide an even more immersive customer experience when submitting contact forms.  Another development would be the inclusion of
a database for email subscription as currently when a user submits an email via the subscription section an email is triggered as oppossed to simply
adding the user to a mailing list as part of an automated process.

# Technologies

The site is built using HTML, CSS, Jquery, Bootstrap, D3.js, Crossfilter, DC.js, Javascript based technologies and Libraries. 
Usage of any libraries or CDNs is documented below:

* CDN Usages

The following CDNs have been used to create this site.

https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/css/bootstrap.min.css
https://stackpath.bootstrapcdn.com/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css
https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/js/bootstrap.min.js

* Libraries

https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.3.1.min.js" integrity="sha256-FgpCb/KJQlLNfOu91ta32o/NMZxltwRo8QtmkMRdAu8=" crossorigin="anonymous"
https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/d3/3.5.5/d3.min.js
d3.min.js
crossfilter.min.js
dc.min.js
queue.min.js
graph.js

# Testing

To ensure any links were entered correctly it was common practice to consol.log a simple 'hello' to the console prior to commencing coding.

Testing has been conducted using google dev tools. Thorough testing in all the various mobile devices along with general responsiveness (responsive mode) has concluded
that this site works well in all modern-day browsers and mobile devices. As part of the testing process each page has been reviewed systematically to ensure all links
work as intended and the pages display correctly.  

This testing has confirmed that users will be able to utilise the site as intended on any device (in landscape or portrait mode) to achieve their goals whilst enjoying the experience and customer journey.

All user forms display correctly and as intended on various displays / devices.

Autoprefixer was used to ensure CSS is compatible in multiple browsers: https://autoprefixer.github.io/

A common approach to testing code was to print to the console using console.log.  This was particulalry useful for testing conditions prior to 
adding additional code and for viewing variable or array values.

Browser Compatibility Testing:

### Issues Encountered

Time was invested at the start of the project to ensure HTML code and Bootstrap Classes were working as anticipated which saved some time on responsiveness
testing later on.

HTML and CSS Validators were used to clear any errors, however, CSS validation tends to highlight browser extentions as errors when they are actually required.

One issue encountered was with the brush effect on the 'Consolidated Sales' line graph.  This issue appears to be intermittent and an issue with chrome
rather than the underlying code.  In order to investigate this I tested the site on other machines and browsers and in certain instances I was unable
to recreate the issue.  That said this issue does not appear to imapct the sites ability to function as intended. 

Issues were encountered with the forms defualt reload behaviour which conflicted with my one page design.  The following custom Jquery was written to mitigate
these issues:

$("form").on("submit", function(event) {
        event.preventDefault();
    })
    
One of the bootstrap defaults in my navbar was creating overflow Y so it was necessary to override the bootstrap style with custom CSS.  On occassion this 
meant using !Important to achieve this.

Some minor modifications were made to the layout of my design post wireframing which were straighforward to implement. This was done in order to
achieve more balance visually.

# Deployment

Throughout the projects regular git commits were made to ensure any working files were backed up. Numerous commits have been logged on the main branch in GitHub.
The project has been successfully deployed on GitHub pages.  There is only one main branch in GitHub for this project.

AWS cloud9 has been used throughout this project as the IDE of choice.  

GitHub Pages Address: https://jaypeaa.github.io/milestone2/

# File Structure

The project has been organised in the following structure:

* milestone2 (Project Folder)
* assets (folder)
    * css (folder)
    * data (folder)
    * davicon
    * js (folder)
    * vendor (folder)
        * images (folder)
        * video (folder)
   

Index.html and Readme.md are both located in the main project folder as are the wireframes for the initial design.

The vendor folder contains any 3rd party assets such as photos, video and audio materials for which proper approval has been attained prior to use.

# Credits

The favicon was generated by a 3rd party site: https://favicon.io/favicon-generator/. 


# Images and Media

All images and media used on this site have been labelled for reuse / non-commercial and are for educational purposes only.  Google images licensing tools
have been utilised in sourcing content. Express consent has been attained via email for any other 3rd party content namely the video.

